docs/flow: document prometheus.remote_write (#2162)
grafana/agent: docs/flow/reference/components/prometheus.remote_write.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.remote_write
title: prometheus.remote_write
---

# prometheus.remote_write

`prometheus.remote_write` collects metrics sent from other components into a
Write-Ahead Log (WAL) and forwards them over the network to a series of
user-supplied endpoints. Metrics are sent over the network using the

> [Prometheus Remote Write protocol][remote_write-spec].

Author: We haven't historically, but I thought it might be useful to explain what the protocol is (the spec is really the only formal document which explains it). Happy to take it out if you think it's too much information

endpoint > http_client_config > oauth2 | [oauth2][] | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating to the endpoint. | no
endpoint > http_client_config > oauth2 > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no
endpoint > http_client_config > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no
endpoint > queue_config | [queue_config][] | Configuration for how metrics are batched before sending. | no
endpoint > metadata_config | [metadata_config][] | Configuration for how metric metadata is sent. | no
wal | [wal][] | Configuration for the component's WAL. | no

The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example, `endpoint >
http_client_config` refers to an `http_client_config` block defined inside a
`endpoint` block.

[endpoint]: #endpoint-block
[http_client_config]: #endpoint-block
[basic_auth]: #basic_auth-block
[authorization]: #authorization-block
[oauth2]: #oauth2-block
[tls_config]: #tls_config-block
[queue_config]: #queue_config-block
[metadata_config]: #metadata_config-block
[wal]: #wal-block

### endpoint block

The `endpoint` block describes a single location to send metrics to. Multiple

> `endpoint` blocks may be provided to send metrics to multiple locations.

Author: Sorry! Bad habit, I'll try to remember to use can more often

The following arguments are supported:

> 

Author: > Not sure if we can can override the default table style for these tables to disable the alternating row styles? Another option would be to remove the code font like you do in the table at the top of the Blocks section but I like the code font for the arguments... Makes it easy to scan.

Yeah, I'm generally disappointed in the styling for the tables because of exactly this. I don't think we can override it, and we might have to wait a few weeks for @jdbaldry to come back before we can see if we have any options here.

I'd personally like to keep the code font for the arguments for this specific PR, but after all the docs are done, I'd like to discuss offline if we should generally avoid code fonts for tables until we have different styling in place.

to all configured locations. Each endpoint has a _queue_ which is used to read
metrics from the WAL and queue them for sending. The `queue_config` block can
be used to customize the behavior of the queue.

Endpoints can be named for easier identification in debug metrics using the
`name` argument. If the `name` argument isn't provided, a name is generated
based on a hash of the endpoint settings.

### http_client_config block

The `http_client_config` block configures the HTTP client used to connect to an
endpoint.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`bearer_token` | `secret` | Bearer token to authenticate with. | | no
`bearer_token_file` | `string` | File containing a bearer token to authenticate with. | | no
`proxy_url` | `string` | HTTP proxy to proxy requests through. | | no
`follow_redirects` | `bool` | Whether redirects returned by the server should be followed. | `true` | no
`enable_http_2` | `bool` | Whether HTTP2 is supported for requests. | `true` | no

`basic_auth`, `authorization`, and `oauth2` are mutually exclusive and only one

> may be provided inside of a `http_client_config` block.

Reviewer: Small detail, but the same goes for `bearer_token` and `bearer_token_file`

`capacity` | `number` | Number of samples to buffer per shard. | `2500` | no
`min_shards` | `number` | Minimum amount of concurrent shards sending samples to the endpoint. | `1` | no
`max_shards` | `number` | Maximum number of concurrent shards sending samples to the endpoint. | `200` | no
`max_samples_per_send` | `number` | Maximum number of samples per send. | `500` | no
`batch_send_deadline` | `duration` | Maximum time samples will wait in the buffer before sending. | `"5s"` | no
`min_backoff` | `duration` | Initial retry delay. The backoff time gets doubled for each retry. | `"30ms"` | no
`max_backoff` | `duration` | Maximum retry delay. | `"5s"` | no
`retry_on_http_429` | `bool` | Retry when an HTTP 429 status code is received. | `false` | no

Each queue then manages a number of concurrent _shards_ which is responsible
for sending a fraction of data to their respective endpoints. The number of
shards is automatically raised if samples are not being sent to the endpoint
quickly enough. The range of permitted shards can be configured with the
`min_shards` and `max_shards` arguments.

Each shard has a buffer of samples it will keep in memory, controlled with the

> `capacity` argument. New metrics won't be read from the WAL unless there is at

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`capacity` argument. New metrics aren't read from the WAL unless there is at
```

least one shard that is not at maximum capcity.

> The buffer of a shard will be flushed and sent to the endpoint either after the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The buffer of a shard is flushed and sent to the endpoint either after the
```

shard reaches the number of samples specified by `max_samples_per_send` or the
duration specified by `batch_send_deadline` has elapsed since the last flush
for that shard.

> Shards will infinitely retry requests which fail with an `HTTP 5xx` status code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shards infinitely retry requests which fail with an `HTTP 5xx` status code
```

Reviewer 2: "Infinitely" sounds strange to me, "continually"?  Maybe just me.

Author: 👍 I dropped the adjective, "until the request succeeds" is the important part anyway

until the requests succeeds. The delay between retries can be customized with
the `min_backoff` and `max_backoff` arguments.

The `retry_on_http_429` argument can optionally configure shards to retry
requests which fail with an `HTTP 429` status code; other requests which fail
due to a `HTTP 4xx` status code are never retried. When `retry_on_http_429` is
enabled, `Retry-After` response headers from the servers are honored.

### metadata_config block

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `send` | `bool` | Controls wheter metric metadata is sent to the endpoint. | `true` | no

Reviewer: s/wheter/whether

> `send` | `bool` | Controls wheter metric metadata is sent to the endpoint. | `true` | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`send` | `bool` | Controls whether metric metadata is sent to the endpoint. | `true` | no
```

`send_interval` | `duration` | How frequently metric metadata is sent to the endpoint. | `"1m"` | no
`max_samples_per_send` | `number` | Maximum number of metadata samples to send to the endpoint at once. | `500` | no

### wal block

The `wal` block customizes the WAL used to locally store metrics before they

> are sent to the configured set of endpoints.

Reviewer: Kudos for the detailed explanations 🎉 

Do we want half a sentence to explicitly call out that the WAL is used as a buffer in case there's intermittent network issues and populating the cache after a restart? Not sure if it's worth spelling out or if it's widely understood.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`truncate_frequency` | `duration` | How frequently to clean up the WAL. | `"2h"` | no
`min_keepalive_time` | `duration` | Minimum time to keep data in the WAL before it can be removed. | `"5m"` | no
`max_keepalive_time` | `duration` | Maximum time to keep data in the WAL before removing it. | `"8h"` | no

The WAL is located inside a component-specific directory relative to the
storage path Grafana Agent is configured to use. See the
[`agent run` documentation][run] for how to change the storage path.

The `truncate_frequency` argument configures how often to clean up the WAL.
Every time the `truncate_frequency` period elapses, the lower two-thirds of

> data will be removed from the WAL and will no longer be available for sending.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
data is removed from the WAL and is no longer available for sending.
```

> When a WAL clean up starts, the lowest succesfully sent timestamp is used to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a WAL clean-up starts, the lowest successfully sent timestamp is used to
```

determine how much data is safe to remove from the WAL. The
`min_keepalive_time` and `max_keepalive_time` control the permitted age range

> of data in the WAL; samples won't be removed until they are at least as old as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of data in the WAL; samples aren't removed until they are at least as old as
```

> `min_keepalive_time`, and samples will be forcibly removed if they are older

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`min_keepalive_time`, and samples are forcibly removed if they are older
```

values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.remote_write` does not expose any component-specific debug
information.

### Debug metrics

* `agent_wal_storage_active_series` (gauge): Current number of active series
  being tracked by the WAL.
* `agent_wal_storage_deleted_series` (gauge): Current number of series marked
  for deletion from memory.
* `agent_wal_storage_created_series_total` (counter): Total number of created
  series appended to the WAL.
* `agent_wal_storage_removed_series_total` (counter): Total number of series
  removed from the WAL.
* `agent_wal_samples_appended_total` (counter): Total number of samples
  appended to the WAL.
* `agent_wal_exemplars_appended_total` (counter): Total number of exemplars
  appended to the WAL.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_samples_total` (counter): Total number of samples
  sent to remote storage.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_exemplars_total` (counter): Total number of
  exemplars sent to remote storage.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_metadata_total` (counter): Total number of
  metadata entries sent to remote storage.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_samples_failed_total` (counter): Total number of

>   samples which failed to send to remote storage due to non-recoverable errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  samples that failed to send to remote storage due to non-recoverable errors.
```

* `prometheus_remote_storage_exemplars_failed_total` (counter): Total number of

>   exemplars which failed to send to remote storage due to non-recoverable errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  exemplars that failed to send to remote storage due to non-recoverable errors.
```

* `prometheus_remote_storage_metadata_failed_total` (counter): Total number of

>   metadata entries which failed to send to remote storage due to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  metadata entries that failed to send to remote storage due to
```

  non-recoverable errors.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_samples_retries_total` (counter): Total number of

>   samples which failed to send to remote storage but were retried due to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  samples that failed to send to remote storage but were retried due to
```

  recoverable errors.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_exemplars_retried_total` (counter): Total number of

>   exemplars which failed to send to remote storage but were retried due to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  exemplars that failed to send to remote storage but were retried due to
```

  recoverable errors.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_metadata_retried_total` (counter): Total number of

>   metadata entries which failed to send to remote storage but were retried due

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  metadata entries that failed to send to remote storage but were retried due
```

  to recoverable errors.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_samples_dropped_total` (counter): Total number of

>   samples which were dropped after being read from the WAL before being sent to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  samples that were dropped after being read from the WAL before being sent to
```

  remote_write because of an unknown reference ID.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_exemplars_dropped_total` (counter): Total number

>   of exemplars which were dropped after being read from the WAL before being

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  of exemplars that were dropped after being read from the WAL before being
```

  sent to remote_write because of an unknown reference ID.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_enqueue_retries_total` (counter): Total number of
  times enqueue has failed because a shard's queue was full.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_sent_batch_duration_seconds` (histogram): Duration
  of send calls to remote storage.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_queue_highest_sent_timestamp_seconds` (gauge):
  Unix timestamp of the latest WAL sample successfully sent by a queue.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_samples_pending` (gauge): The number of samples
  pending in shards to be sent to remote storage.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_exemplars_pending` (gauge): The number of
  exemplars pending in shards to be sent to remote storage.
* `prometheus_remote_storage_shard_capacity` (gauge): The capacity of shards

>   within for a given queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  within a given queue.
```

Author: oops 🙃

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.remote_write
title: prometheus.remote_write
---

# prometheus.remote_write

`prometheus.remote_write` collects metrics sent from other components into a
Write-Ahead Log (WAL) and forwards them over the network to a series of

> user-supplied endpoints.

Author: This should probably link to the Remote Write specification somewhere.

Multiple `prometheus.remote_write` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Example

```river
prometheus.remote_write "staging" {
  // Send metrics to a locally running Mimir.
  endpoint {
    url = "http://mimir:9009/api/v1/push"
  }
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to send metrics to
// prometheus.remote_write component.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets = [

>     {"__address__" = "demo.robustperception.io:9090"},

Reviewer 3: I wonder about using robustperception in our docs since it is not "owned" by the Agent.

Author: Yeah, that's fair, I really wish Grafana had a demo server like this. I'll change it out to `localhost:12345`

`batch_send_deadline` | `duration` | Maximum time samples will wait in the buffer before sending. | `"5s"` | no
`min_backoff` | `duration` | Initial retry delay. The backoff time gets doubled for each retry. | `"30ms"` | no
`max_backoff` | `duration` | Maximum retry delay. | `"5s"` | no
`retry_on_http_429` | `bool` | Retry when an HTTP 429 status code is received. | `false` | no

Each queue then manages a number of concurrent _shards_ which is responsible
for sending a fraction of data to their respective endpoints. The number of
shards is automatically raised if samples are not being sent to the endpoint
quickly enough. The range of permitted shards can be configured with the
`min_shards` and `max_shards` arguments.

Each shard has a buffer of samples it will keep in memory, controlled with the
`capacity` argument. New metrics won't be read from the WAL unless there is at
least one shard that is not at maximum capcity.

The buffer of a shard will be flushed and sent to the endpoint either after the
shard reaches the number of samples specified by `max_samples_per_send` or the
duration specified by `batch_send_deadline` has elapsed since the last flush
for that shard.

> Shards will infinitely retry requests which fail with an `HTTP 5xx` status code

Reviewer 3: Do we want to mention that retry_on_http_429 will honor the `Retry-After`header if specified?

Author: TIL :) Definitely, I'll include that
